Everybody is giving you AI advice right
now, and most of it will hurt you. We're
going to go over 15 pieces of advice
that sound smart, but will set you back
years. And I'll give you the actual
advice you should listen to instead.
Number one, fire your team and replace
them with AI agents. Why this is advice?
Because having people on your team makes
the business fun. Why would you get rid
of them, you dingdong? Business is about
people. AI can't build relationships. It
can't feel the energy in the room. Your
team is your competitive advantage. AI
should make them 10 times better, not
replace them. Better advice, what I
would tell people is use AI to be your
co-pilot for your team. Encourage
[music] them, train them, show them what
they can do so that they can do their
best work, not replace them. Number two,
automate everything in your business
immediately. Why this is advice? If your
process is broken, automating a broken
process just makes it broken faster. It
makes it I've seen founders waste 6
months automating a sales process that
shouldn't exist because it didn't work
in the first place and they're like I'm
going to use AI to make the sales
automated. It's like you can't even
sell. Better advice would be fix your
process manually first. Elon Musk did
this with the Model 3 production line
and then he overoptimized it and
automated it and then he came back and
he added people so that he could learn.
Once you know what actually works, then
you start using AI to automate the
biggest bottlenecks. Number three, let
AI handle all customer service to save
you money. This is bad advice. Customer
conversations are gold mines. It's where
the golden nuggets live. You got to go
mine for it. That's where you learn
what's broken. You learn what features
to build. You learn what problems to
solve. Cut that off and you're flying
blind. The better advice would be use AI
for the simple repetitive questions or
response times. Have it answer calls,
answer questions, what time are you
open, easy stuff, but keep humans in the
loop for the human touch points.
Business isn't B2B, business to
business. It's H to H, human to human.
Number four, don't bother learning how
AI works. Why this is advice? If you
don't know how the AI thinks, you won't
know its limitation. You won't know how
to craft it. You won't know how to
massage it. You won't know how to direct
it. I've seen founders make decisions
based on completely made up data because
they didn't understand how the AI makes
up the answer and it made up the data.
It hallucinated. So improved advice is
learn the AI fundamentals. That way you
know what is possible and what isn't.
And here's a pro tip. Ask AI to teach
you AI. You can ask it how does a
language model work? Make it simple. Use
a metaphor. Use a simile and watch it
teach you so that you can then learn how
to craft it and design it to make it
even better. Number five, build
everything with AI from day one. This is
why that's bad [music] advice. Most
people don't even know what they're
building yet. So I recommend all the
time, start manual. Learn what works. Go
into a company, into a team, reverse
engineer it, then add AI to scale what's
proven based on what you learn. Better
advice would be figure out what works
manually first and then accelerate the
process with AI. Don't replace it, then
use AI to scale it. Number six, build
your strategy around the latest AI. This
is why this is horrible advice. Not too
long ago, AI changed every 3 months,
then it was every month. Now it's every
week and sometimes every day. Learning
what's hot today will put you in a
position to waste a lot of time learning
about something that's not even relevant
tomorrow. Better advice is to focus on
solving problems that existed for years,
pains that people have. As Jeff Bezos
often said about Amazon,
>> think about the things that are not
going to change over 10 years. And those
are probably the big things. 10 years
from now, customers are still going to
want low prices. They're still going to
want fast delivery.
>> There's never going to be a day where
the customer doesn't want their package
faster or for the website to load
faster. So use AI today for what works
best today and go deep. Master the skill
of one platform so that way as the
platforms evolve, you'll already know
how the whole suite of tools work. Focus
on solving problems that have existed
for years or will always exist. Think
about pain. Number seven, let AI make
all your business decisions. Bad advice.
So bad. Here's the deal. AI still
hallucinates and it makes mistakes. If
you think about the concept of how AI
works where it's predicting the next
word, by definition, it'll always give
you the most probabilistic
answer, the median watered down answer,
no matter what. And the best companies
were built off innovation. The best
companies were built off intuition. You
shouldn't trust it with million-dollar
problems yet. Better advice would be use
AI for insights and analysis. That's
what it can do better than anybody. then
verify it with people who've
successfully made those decisions to
inform if it's the right strategy. So
use it to do research and tell you and
then take that blueprint, show it to
somebody who's been there before. It
says, "Does this make sense?" They go,
"Wow, that's really smart." But you need
to be the director. Let the AI do the
task. Now, before I move on to the next
piece of terrible AI advice, if you're a
business owner, you're trying to scale
past seven figures and you want to
implement AI into every single
department in your business, just go
find me on Instagram, Dan Martell to Ela
Martell, and DM me the word AI business,
and I'll send you over my full guide to
do just that. Number eight, replace all
your brainstorming with AI. Bad, bad
advice. It's so crazy. AI can only
reference what's existed before. So, by
definition, it'll only allow you to
brainstorm things that other people have
talked to in the past. So, if you're
really starting from nothing and you
want just to understand what's going on,
that's cool. But brainstorming requires
creativity. Brainstorming is about
finding these nuances. When you think of
like Henry Ford learning from the
meatackers in Chicago to create the
production line, which is how modern
cars are still made today, but borrowed
from inspiration from a completely
different industry. You can't do that
with AI because it's only going to give
you things that are probably going to
work. based on what's worked in the
past, not find new opportunities. One of
the things that AI can't do is have
vision. That is your job to see a future
that doesn't exist yet, but should.
Better advice would be to use AI to
spark ideas, to research things, to
expand on concepts, to test crazy ideas
in the real world from a validation
point of view, not to be the driver of
innovation. Number nine, feed AI as much
data as possible to get the best
results. This is bad advice even though
it sounds so great on the surface is
because AI has this concept called
context. And if you give it too much
information, what happens is you have
context fraud. Too much data confuses
the AI. It messes it up. It doesn't
understand what's relevant. It's like
giving somebody 10 maps when they ask
for simple directions. You need to use
the most concise, cleanest context. It
actually solves your problem. If you
don't get the context right, you'll get
context rot. Number 10, leave AI to your
IT guys. It's just bad advice. Saying
that you don't need to learn AI because
your job isn't AI and leave that to the
technical person on your team is like
saying that you don't want to use a car
because you're not a mechanic. AI today
is literally programmed using English.
So if you're hearing the words coming
out of my mouth, I know you know how to
use AI because you can talk. better
advice would be, hey, let's train
everyone on how to use AI to do what
they need 10 times more, 10 times
faster, 10 times better. Like I said, AI
is for humans. That's why it's coded in
English. That is the first time in the
history of technology where a technology
is programmed in English. So, don't just
leave it to the technical guys.
Everybody should learn this. Number 11,
start by picking the coolest AI tools.
This is advice because cool technology
doesn't solve problems. Cool technology
is just cool technology. Nobody wakes up
and says, "I need some AI." They go, "I
need to solve a problem." So, if you're
always just picking the coolest AI
tools, then yeah, you'll know a lot
about tools, but you won't actually know
how to solve problems. Better advice and
what I tell my team is to find the
problem that's worth solving. Figure out
what's the sequence of solutions and
then find the AI to solve it. I use a
framework called the theory of
constraints. You can ask AI about it and
it'll teach it to you. And that is how
you choose the right problems to solve
with AI. So start with the right problem
that you're having and then go find the
right tool to solve it. Number 12, use
only one AI tool for everything. If you
think that one tool can do everything,
then you'll have the most watered down
solution to your problems. Do you only
have one social media app on your phone
or do you have several? Why? Because
each one does something great. It's the
same thing with AI and the tools. Each
tool does a thing better than the rest
of them. So you need to know which tool
to use for the right moment. So if
you're using chat GBT for everything,
here's my advice for you. Build a
toolkit of specialized AI. Match the
right tool to the right problem. You
might be using Claude to do writing. You
might use Gemini to do research because
it has 3.5 times more information than
any other language model. You might
still use Chad GPT for certain things,
but you might also find a tool to
generate images that are better than all
those three I just mentioned. Number 13,
use every AI tool that comes out. So,
this is advice because you don't want to
be just running around using every new
tool that comes out. What you want to do
is what I just said, which is find the
three to five that you need for your
work that solve 90% of your problems,
like actually your real problems that go
deep so that you can become a master in
those tools. I know a lot of people that
just get addicted to the new tools. And
I just call that productive
procrastination. They're addicted to the
newness, but they actually don't do
anything with the tools. In many ways,
they are the tool, but um number 14,
just copy paste other people's prompts.
So easy advice. Why? They're outputs are
not what you need as a result. If you
just keep copying everybody else's
prompts, then you're just going to look
like everybody else. Those prompts work
for those people based on their
problems, not yours. Generic prompts
create generic output. The better advice
is understand how to create your own
prompts. Understand your process, your
inputs, your specific outputs. What
problem are you trying to solve? [music]
And then create your prompt based on
maybe that is inspiration, but have it
customize it based on what you need.
Number 15, AI will give you a
competitive advantage just by using it.
Pope advice. It's so crap. Look, here's
the deal. AI doesn't give you anything.
It's just a thing you're using. I know a
lot of people that use AI every day and
their life looks the exact same because
they don't understand how to actually
use it to get their life moving forward.
Just using AI won't get you anywhere.
It's about how you use it. So my advice
for you instead would be your advantage
comes from combining AI with your unique
[music] process, your relationships,
your expertise. That's the moat. That's
where you take you plus AI to create
real value. Now, I know what I just gave
you feels like a lot and some of it was
even controversial. It's like master
one, go learn the other ones, build your
toolkit. But here's the deal. All I need
from you right now is one mindset shift
that changed the way you think about AI.
I just need some feedback to know that
you got what I was sharing. So ask
yourself, out of all those ideas, which
one did you need to hear most today?
Leave a comment. I'm going to read them
all. And remember, if you want to learn
how to implement AI into every
department of your business to go even
past seven figures, just DM me AI
business on Instagram and I'll send you
over my AI implementation playbook. Now,
if you want to learn which AI tools you
should actually use in 2026, click here
and I'll see you on the other